Agree & Join LinkedIn

By clicking Continue to join or sign in, you agree to LinkedIn's User Agreement, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.

Skip to main content
LinkedIn
Jobs
Clear text
Clear text
Sign in
Join now
Business Intelligence Data Analyst (Program Admin Officer 3)
Government of Nova Scotia  Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada
1 day ago  74 applicants

See who Government of Nova Scotia has hired for this role

Apply 
Save


Competition # : 47937

Department: Service Nova Scotia

Location: HALIFAX

Type of Employment: Permanent

Union Status: NSGEU - NSPG

Closing Date: 23-Feb-26 (Applications are accepted until 11:59 PM Atlantic Time)

About Us

At Service Nova Scotia, we impact every citizen, business, and municipality in Nova Scotia. Our mandate is to design and deliver programs and services to meet the needs of our clients and the public good through a culture of excellence. Service Nova Scotia’s vision is to be a recognized leader in service and public protection that delivers trusted, accessible, modern programs, and contributes to Nova Scotia as a safe and desirable place to live, work and do business.

About Our Opportunity

Reporting to the Director of Performance Excellence, you will develop and maintain the Business Intelligence (BI) reports and tools used by the Financial Services Division of SNS. In addition, you will own the design, accuracy, and ongoing lifecycle of the division’s dashboards, KPIs, and reporting tools—ensuring leaders and teams can quickly understand performance, identify opportunities, and make informed decisions. This role blends strong technical execution with strategic thinking and is ideal for someone who enjoys both building data products and guiding others in how to use them effectively.

Primary Accountabilities

Responsibilities include:

Evaluate service delivery metrics (including technical, financial, operational, etc.) and provide accurate information in a timely manner to support leadership teams and Program Owners in decision making.
Collaborate with various internal and external teams to support system design and implement solutions.
Lead the discovery, collection, cleaning, and analysis of data from multiple sources.
Design, develop and maintain a suite of automated dashboards, data products, and visual reports.
Develop and deliver reporting to Leadership teams to assist in workload management and to measure benchmarks with actual daily performance targets.

Qualifications And Experience

To be considered for this opportunity, you have an undergraduate degree such as Business, Data Analytics, Commerce or Business Administration and five (5) years of relevant business/data analytics experience. An equivalent combination of relevant training and experience may be considered.

You demonstrate strong analytical and conceptual thinking skills and can develop practical, data‑informed solutions for service delivery.

You are proficient with Tableau, PowerBI, or another business intelligence (BI) and data visualization software.

In addition, you have effective communication skills (written, verbal and listening) and demonstrate sound judgment in assessing options and impacts to provide solid advice to management.

You are self-motivated with ability to work independently as well in a team environment. You also possess a high degree of initiative, objectivity, as well as the ability to manage and prioritize multiple initiatives to ensure they are completed on schedule and within budget objectives.

The Following Will Be Considered An Asset

Experience within the Payroll Services, Collections or Operational Accounting groups of the Financial Services Division of SNS.
Experience working with SAP or AMANDA (Granicus).

We will assess the above qualifications and competencies using one or more of the following tools: written examination, standardized tests, oral presentations, interview(s), and reference checks.

Equivalency

Applicants relying on education and experience equivalencies must demonstrate such equivalencies in their application.

Benefits

Based on the employment status and union agreement, the Government of Nova Scotia offers its employees a wide range of benefits such as a Defined Benefit Pension Plan, Health, Dental, Life Insurance, General illness, Short and Long Term Disability, Vacation and Employee and Family Assistance Programs. For information on all our Benefit program offerings, click here: Benefits for government employees.

Additional Information

This is a permanent, full-time position based in Halifax, NS.

What We Offer


Career development where you have access to career guidance, tools, resources, and ongoing training for every stage of your career.
Engaging workplace: our employees feel valued, respected, connected, and tuned in; we have forward-thinking policies and strategies.
Countless career paths.
Department specific flexible working schedules.


Pay Grade: PR 13

Salary Range: $2,750.62 - $3,343.61 Bi-Weekly

Employment Equity Statement

Our goal is to be a diverse workforce that is representative, at all job levels, of the citizens we serve. The Government of Nova Scotia has an Employment Equity Policy, and we welcome applications from Indigenous People, African Nova Scotians and Other Racially Visible Persons, Persons with Disabilities and Women in occupations or positions where they are under-represented. If you are a member of one of these equity groups, you are encouraged to self-identify on your electronic application.

Accommodation Statement

We are committed to providing an inclusive and accessible recruitment process. Candidates may request accommodations based on any grounds protected by the Human Rights Act. If you require an accommodation throughout the recruitment process, please contact us at competitions@novascotia.ca.

This Is a Bargaining Unit Position Initially Restricted To Current Civil Service Employees Represented By The Nova Scotia Government Employees Union (NSGEU). If Applying From Outside a Government Office, Employees Must Apply Correctly Via This Link


Failure to apply correctly means that your application will not be given first consideration as a bargaining unit applicant, and will only be included if external applications are pursued.

External applicants and current casual employees will only be considered if there are no qualified civil service bargaining unit candidates. PLEASE NOTE: Candidates will not be considered for an interview if applications are incomplete or are missing information.

Offer of employment is conditional upon the completion of all applicable background checks and confirmation of credentials, the results of which must be satisfactory to the employer. We thank all applicants for the interest, however, only those selected for an interview will be contacted. All questions and concerns may be directed to Competitions@novascotia.ca.
Show more 
Seniority level
Mid-Senior level
Employment type
Full-time
Job function
Research, Analyst, and Information Technology
Industries
Government Administration

Referrals increase your chances of interviewing at Government of Nova Scotia by 2x

See who you know
Get notified when a new job is posted.
Set alert
Similar jobs
Associate / Senior Data Analyst, Business Intelligence & Dating Reporting
Associate / Senior Data Analyst, Business Intelligence & Dating Reporting
RBC
Bedford, Nova Scotia, Canada
15 hours ago
Senior Business Analyst (Halifax or Fredericton Area Candidates)
Senior Business Analyst (Halifax or Fredericton Area Candidates)
Mara Consulting
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada
3 hours ago
Business Analyst
Business Analyst
J.D. Irving, Limited
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada
3 days ago
Business Analyst
Business Analyst
Medavie
Dartmouth, Nova Scotia, Canada
1 month ago
Business Analyst
Business Analyst
J.D. Irving, Limited
Dartmouth, Nova Scotia, Canada
2 months ago
Business Analyst, Identity Access Management
Business Analyst, Identity Access Management
RBC
Bedford, Nova Scotia, Canada
3 days ago
Show more jobs like this 
People also viewed
Analyste d’affaires intermédiaire
Analyste d’affaires intermédiaire

Exposant 3

Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada
1 week ago
Analyste d’affaires intermédiaire
Analyste d’affaires intermédiaire

Exposant 3

Dartmouth, Nova Scotia, Canada
1 week ago
Senior Business Systems Analyst - GFT Halifax
Senior Business Systems Analyst - GFT Halifax

RBC

Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada
1 week ago
Business Systems Analyst
Business Systems Analyst

Shannex Incorporated

Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada
2 weeks ago
Associate Director, Business Analyst / Project Manager – Digital and AI Solutions
Associate Director, Business Analyst / Project Manager – Digital and AI Solutions

RBC

Bedford, Nova Scotia, Canada
1 week ago
Similar Searches
Business Intelligence Specialist jobs
1,372 open jobs
Business Intelligence Developer jobs
1,130 open jobs
Database Technician jobs
14,725 open jobs
Senior Business Intelligence Analyst jobs
909 open jobs
Senior Manager Project Management jobs
1,852 open jobs
Business Intelligence Consultant jobs
1,095 open jobs
Senior Inventory Analyst jobs
267 open jobs
Business Intelligence Engineer jobs
2,499 open jobs
Software System Analyst jobs
76 open jobs
Business Intelligence Intern jobs
11 open jobs
Database Analyst jobs
15,225 open jobs
Data Warehouse Analyst jobs
1,167 open jobs
Show more 
Explore collaborative articles

We’re unlocking community knowledge in a new way. Experts add insights directly into each article, started with the help of AI.

Explore More
More searches 
LinkedIn
© 2026
About
Accessibility
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Copyright Policy
Brand Policy
Guest Controls
Community Guidelines
Language